README.md, before:

# Wordpress Utility Scripts
Various scripts and notes on how to make a shop website with wordpress involving migration from wamp and docker setup. I made these scripts while helping my friend build his shop website using Wordpress in Windows and intend to migrate to a Linux host later on.

# Disabling unwanted image sizes auto-generated by Wordpress
If you're running Wordpress in Windows through WAMP, download [disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat) and [disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py). You also need to install python (any version). Then modify the "PATH" variable definition in disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat to point to the directory where python.exe is located (default is %localappdata%\Programs\Python\Python310 for python 3.10.x). Then double click on the bat file to run it. It will prompt you to specify the path to your wordpress directory (default is C:\wamp64\www\wordpress). The bat file then invoke the "disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py" python script to search and replace/comment out lines of code in wordpress (particularly, woocommerce) that causes extra image sizes generation. As of current writing, the WooCommerce plugin of Wordpress (with Storefront theme by default) only utilize 100x100 thumbnail, 300x300 thumbnail, and "scaled" image sizes. By removing image size threshold, Wordpress will use original image size in place of "scaled" size.

[Read this note for more detail](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/notes/Wordpress%20disable%20unwanted%20image%20sizes.txt)

To do: write a .sh equivalent of .bat

Commit message:

update readme for backup instruction

README.md, after:

# Wordpress Utility Scripts
Various scripts and notes on how to make a shop website with wordpress involving migration from wamp and docker setup. I made these scripts while helping my friend build his shop website using Wordpress in Windows and intend to migrate to a Linux host later on.

# Disabling unwanted image sizes auto-generated by Wordpress
If you're running Wordpress in Windows through WAMP, download [disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat) and [disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py). You also need to install python (any version). Then modify the "PATH" variable definition in disable_unwanted_image_sizes.bat to point to the directory where python.exe is located (default is %localappdata%\Programs\Python\Python310 for python 3.10.x). Then double click on the bat file to run it. It will prompt you to specify the path to your wordpress directory (default is C:\wamp64\www\wordpress). The bat file then invoke the "disable_unwanted_image_sizes.py" python script to search and replace/comment out lines of code in wordpress (particularly, woocommerce) that causes extra image sizes generation. As of current writing, the WooCommerce plugin of Wordpress (with Storefront theme by default) only utilize 100x100 thumbnail, 300x300 thumbnail, and "scaled" image sizes. By removing image size threshold, Wordpress will use original image size in place of "scaled" size. All other image sizes are not needed.

[Read this note for more detail](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/notes/Wordpress%20disable%20unwanted%20image%20sizes.txt)

To do: write a .sh equivalent of .bat

# Backing up Windows' WAMP Wordpress
This is designed for Windows WAMP Wordpress installation, especially if you're not familiar with Wordpress and want to build it first in Windows, then pay and migrate to a Linux host later. Download [backup_wordpress.bat](https://github.com/thanghn90/wordpress_storefront_util/blob/main/backup_wordpress.bat) and run it as administrator. It will prompt several info related to your Wordpress setup (e.g. wamp64 path, mysql/mariadb database name and credential...), then automatically start wampmanager service if it's not running, dump SQL database, and copy/zip the entire wordpress folder for you. Hopefully you will find this script useful in conjunction with countless instructions regarding wordpress migration online.
